## Minimizing Errors in Your Macros

You should use a **five-step approach** to developing macro programs that generate SAS code. This approach will streamline your development and debugging process:

1. Write and debug the SAS program without macro coding
2. Generalize by replacing hardcoded values with macro variable references
3. Create a macro definition with macro parameters
4. Add macro-level programming for conditional and iterative processing
5. Add data-driven customization

There are several system options that are useful for macro debugging:

| Option | Description |
|:-----:|-----|
| MCOMPILENOTE | Issues a note to the SAS log after a macro completes compilation |
| MLOGIC | Writes messages that trace macro execution to the SAS log |
| MPRINT | Specifies that the text that is sent to the compiler when a macro executes is printed in the SAS log |
| SYMBOLGEN | Displays the values of macro variables as they resolve |

## Debugging During Macro Compilation

### `MCOMPILENOTE=` Option

By default, SAS does not display any indication that a macro has completed compilation. You can use the `MCOMPILENOTE=` option with the `ALL` argument to issue a note to the SAS log after a macro compiles.
```
  OPTIONS MCOMPILENOTE=NONE | ALL;
```

## Tracking Errors During Macro Execution

### `MPRINT` Option

The `MPRINT` option displays the SAS statements generated by macro execution.
```
OPTIONS MPRINT | NOMPRINT;
```

### `MLOGIC` Option

The `MLOGIC` option prints messages that indicate macro actions that were taken during macro execution.
```
OPTIONS MLOGIC | NOMLOGIC;
```

When the `MLOGIC` system option is in effect, the messages that SAS displays in the log include information about the following:
* The beginning of macro execution
* The values of any parameters
* The results of arithmetic and logical macro operations
* The end of macro execution

When you're working with a program that uses SAS macro language, you should typically turn the `MLOGIC` option, along with the `MPRINT` option and the `SYMBOLGEN` option
* `on` for development and debugging purposes
* `off` when the program is in production mode

## Comment your Macros

Your macros might benefit from comments. Comments can be especially helpful if you plan to save your macros permanently or share them with other users.
```
%* comment;
```

To use the macro comment statement, specify the percent sign, followed by an asterisk and then your comment. The comment can be any text. Like other SAS statements, each macro comment statement ends with a semicolon.

You can also use the comment symbols `/ *` and `* /` inside a macro. When these symbols appear, the macro processor ignores the text within the comment.
